so a bunch of people asked me to make a
video about shaving my head about being
bald ah maybe like five people and
they're they're all guys they're I guess
they're guys who are dealing with going
bald or with was shaving their heads and
wanted that me know they phrased in
different ways like how did you how did
you own this as part of your identity
and you you seem to think it's it's an
interesting time I don't know I mean I
don't have a whole lot to say about it
I started shaving my head before I
started going bald so I started my shave
man when I was still in high school I
think I was 16 it's possible I just
turned 17 oh great sorry I didn't even
know it's yeah I'm wearing my wearing my
branded t-shirt here cuz I'm ready to go
to the gym no no no I'm gonna say no six
more times no no no I mean so for me I
got a question on and I'm related Walt
but yet profoundly related topic on
discord where someone was asking me
about going vegan in my life before I
went vegan and some of these kind of
ethical and it's those choices before I
even became vegan and before I got
involved with Buddhism I already had a
lot of stuff in my life that reflected
this kind of error SATs militaristic
self disciplined aesthetic right so I've
told you this way back then maybe I
guess 16 you know again it could have
been 15 but you know back then you know
what got rid all my furniture I had a
bedroom where I slept directly on the
floor and the only like furniture had
the only little bits because that it
could be fold up and put it away in the
closet it was a small closet so so like
if friends came over I painted the walls
of the room silver and a metallic silver
walls and a gray a grey carpet and yeah
I had this very bare you know when I got
into this kind of you know so you know
so I went through a period of not even
using blankets that's right
yeah and then I think of it well no but
okay so why did I do that I was
horrified by the I knew a lot of kids
growing up who said oh I can't sleep
this comforter I can't sleep without
this heavy blanket I met a couple kids
who said they literally couldn't sleep
without having the radio on they needed
the noise of hearing the raid on earth
few known people like that like a metal
these people who had these weird
requirements for how they slept and
again I was growing up in the the shadow
of the Cold War
you know I told you this is we did a
video but this a few days ago it was
like World War 3 is coming and again the
sense of toughing and toughening up for
it was partly intellectual and partly
physical and partly partly pragmatic
when have you but it was this sense of I
live in a decadent culture nobody's
prepared to deal with anything none of
these people can sleep in a tent if they
have to or sleep on the ground if they
have to and you know I want to learn to
sleep without a pillow you know I want
to learn to sleep without you know
blankets that I'm comfortable with her
or used to or something you know so is
this sense of yeah it does I mean it
ultimately does you know connect a
little bit to the the ancient Greek
stuff a lot of that stuff that the
Stoics and the skeptics and there's a
lot of discussion you haven't read that
well right you haven't read that that's
sorry - the great philosophy but the the
the stoah were now remembered as the
Stoics and the skeptics and the debates
around them there was a lot of talk
about kind of what does it mean to
toughen yourself up and their conception
of it had a lot to do with like you know
when you're thirsty not drinking water
Emile it wasn't it wasn't like
bodybuilding you know what I mean it was
an absolute strength it was a kind of
intellectual it was kind of strength of
character that they were interest which
is you know but anyway peels the 15 year
old boys reading some that stuff so yeah
you know is this sense of one to live a
meaningful life willing to live a self
disciplined life and you know when I
figured it was actually it was this girl
at a crush on and she took me aside and
she explained to me that I didn't know
anything about haircare right my parents
had never taught me how to do anything
yeah yeah yeah yeah she was like look
you know like you don't actually know
how to shampoo your hair and which
was true I'd never been taught anything
you know I had really thick curly hair
and I was like no you know if you don't
actually work it in with your fingertips
and then do this and just she taught me
through these like six steps yeah yeah
yeah yeah I never slept with her I mean
I wonder if my whole life would be
different
in a weird way if I had but you can tell
she and I were like we were kind of we
were close we're intimate in a sense you
know that she was actually like in my
bathroom explaining to me how to shampoo
my hair and stuff yeah yeah but that's
that's how it is when you're when you're
a teen it was for me I mean I remember
having kind of close relationships with
women I didn't sleep with who weren't my
girlfriend you know they I remember uh
you know type of that and I realized
like okay this whole having hair thing
there's like a fork in the road but
basically I've grown up like a
you know child in the you know of
growing up feral not knowing what having
hair really involves and this girl has
explained to me like look if you want to
have hair there's all this haircare
stuff and hair stones that I forgot to
do which also made sense cuz you know it
was very hard for me to get my hair to
look like a normal person's hair it was
just very curly and vibrant and so you
can see that my daughter my daughter's
got some ID and she has this very you
know lustrous high volume hair whatever
yeah it's totally different that's right
that's right yeah that's right yeah yeah
[Music]
you know we first met her hair is not
picked up well on camera the color of
her hair IRL kind of a little bit
escapes photography so that was a
surprise the first time we met him it
was striking to me that all of your
coloring the color of your hair eyes and
skin was not what I was expecting
anyway but yeah I genetically I'm
attracted to you so that we can have
children with less slice realistic try
to compensate for the hair deity I've
got the the untamable hair but it was
like there's there was like this fork in
the road you realize like dude I'm not
gonna be a guy who puts an hour into my
hair this is ridiculous and you know up
to that plan so yeah so at that point
was it and then again the whole thing I
mean oh right I didn't measure sorry
another thing I was just mentioning
sleeping on the floor you know I only
ate two meals a day for years and years
and then later our founder that actually
is a Buddhist thing that's a traditional
Buddhist thing I'm not eating after
lunch doing breakfast and lunch and of
course it doesn't mean if you wake up at
5:00 a.m. lunch is pretty late in the
day for you right and some Buddhist
monks wake up at 3 a.m. where they're
really on it just if it's oh really
they're eating three meals a day they're
just not eating afternoon but they go to
sleep really early so it doesn't matter
but yeah there is a there is a principle
in Buddhism for for monks
of not eating after midday so yeah which
I didn't know about but again it was
this very vague sense of wanting to be
you know self-discipline and
what-have-you
yeah as I you know whatever as I was
going through puberty and yes struggling
with I mean look you know what is
masculinity and what is culture and what
is civilization you know you look around
at you know the people I went to school
with you know I had no positive role
models in my life none you know and
that's like well you want to end up as a
totally decadent totally fatuous totally
self-indulgent totally innervated person
most of the middle-aged people I know
mostly adults they couldn't walk two or
three city blocks you know this is kind
of before like the I mean here here
right now in Victoria everyone wears
spandex everyone does yoga everyone goes
to the gym I mean people here in their
50s and 60s who are in great physical
shape you know but I mean Toronto at
that time in Scotland was even worse you
know you're surrounded by people who are
very very physically lazy and
undeveloped and you were very very
intellectually emotionally you know lazy
and and undeveloped people ooh you know
I remember Satan people hadn't read a
book since high school you know you know
and it's like well this is not what I
want to be so what do I want to be and I
didn't find any role models for that in
the kind of you know in the kind of
literature rooms but anyway so this is
part of my life like you don't know it
just never comes up but I said Melissa
her BA was in English literature and in
a lot of ways I know you're just you're
dissatisfied with that was just like
English literature was not deep enough
not real enough not inspiring I mean oh
it's not a zero interest but it's just
not it's a little bit underwhelming to
get your be in English literature well
you know in the same way I mean my
parents were people who put a lot of
value on you know literature you know in
that sense fiction so you know
especially theater my father to some
extent worshipped Shakespeare and this
kind of stuff kind of high tradition of
English English literature in theatre
and you know of course the visual arts
painting the history of art and painting
you know it's etcetera as part of our
lives so when looking at that you look
at those people you're looking at
intellectuals within the tradition of
painting and the big Wharton and
literature
and drama and again there was nothing
you know there was nothing positive
there was nothing even more positive as
a role model like compared to Batman you
know and I mean you know a lot of people
talk about that as a young man that I
mean Batman it's precisely that he
doesn't have superpowers
well what did that man do he does a lot
of push-ups he reads a lot of books you
know Batman superpower was just that he
seems to take life seriously and if
you're in a culture a situation where
nobody's taking life seriously you know
where and even even where the model of
what it is to be an adult put in front
of you you know it's it's people like
these kind of lazy self-indulgent French
Communist intellectuals some only
jean-paul Sartre you know it's like well
the image of you know an adult
revolutionary it's someone who sits
around smoking cigarettes and cheating
on his wife and kind of writing books
and poetry about how self-pitying he is
about his life as a you know an
intellectual who cheats on his wife or
like really that was what you were so
but this is a digital at that time
wasn't yet wasn't yet cognizant of
Buddhism wasn't yet cognizant of
veganism at all when I started shaving
my head but it was part of you know
wanting to lead a lead a meaningful life
and and yeah you know I mean even owning
that stuff you and I both our bathrooms
still real real simple but I mean you
know owning shampoo and conditioner and
figuring out what works for you and and
harristown paying a barber but as a man
okay women's haircuts are more expensive
going to a hairstyle soon was more
expensive but you do it less frequently
as a man is supposed to be like every
two weeks you haven't in years
yeah right yeah yeah but you know but as
a man you're supposed to go to a barber
like every two weeks I know you know
look you just have like normal
employable haircut yeah so I couldn't I
couldn't believe that you know like you
know going and getting a trim and paint
yeah right so all that I mean oh if you
try to estimate how much money and time
of save by shaving my head versus going
to a barber every two weeks you know
it's it's massive yeah it's inestimable
yeah
yeah I don't know probably today you
can't get a haircut for $20 so they're
probably really cheap to have someone
else cut your hair yeah yeah yeah do you
ever feel self-conscious about the fact
that you were holding or was that right
why I only noticed it probably a long
time after it started because you're
shaving your head you don't really
notice and like I remember noticing it
for the first time that it was just
easier to shave my head kind of up here
then over here I was like oh it's less
dense there so no it really didn't
wasn't a part of my my life in a big way
you know um
during university notice sure yeah yeah
no he did he did bold but much later in
life yeah
and of my brothers you know you see a
spectrum was I have so many brothers
right from those that bolded really
early in life and again I'm sorry but
guys male pattern baldness is linked to
testosterone levels and so like you know
one of my brothers the one who went bald
early in life he's a very high
testosterone character with the
advantages and disadvantages that brings
you know he puts on muscle very rapidly
but he also is very sharp temper or room
you know he has he has a lot of those
traits and then I have other brothers
who kept their hair their whole lives
who you know have long hair I never went
bold and are low testosterone with again
with a different shape of jaw it all
corresponds to kind of the textbook
stuff you know the the big jaw and the
high testosterone levels as opposed to
the more feminine narrow John Lotus
ocean level so sadly yeah the the
sciences have predictive power on this
on this topic but yeah I didn't know any
of that and wasn't thinking that way
yeah I mean I think that the real thing
that lurks in the background is one the
symbolic significance of being bold in
Buddhism which then later became a part
of my life it was a big deal I mean like
in in Thailand there were time n who
were just amazed that I would shame ed
they saw it as a kind of humiliation or
humbling thing like you know like okay
so you're either really serious about
Buddhism or you're in the US Marine
Corps like for them that was the only
explanation for why man would shave his
head like that was such a big deal which
is very alien so being in those cultures
that was a big deal and
what being bold meant as a scholar of
Buddhism you know during that that time
of my life
and I guess the other one is just you
know are people gonna perceive you as
right wing or a neo-nazi or something
because you're a tall white guy with a
shaved head I think that's been very
very rarely a problem for me but it does
come up once in a while sure and where
people see it as a as a tough look
that's associated with you know the old
I don't even if people are skin ads
anymore the skinhead thing that's really
1980s yeah you know but that that
Association that way and stuff yeah sure
that's a deterrent would be that you are
Jewish it as much as it comes up well
and I and I reach I knees I'm involved
in all this other this other stuff
that's obviously not you know not right
wing or what-have-you
yes so I mean you know head-shaving has
become mainstream during my lifetime
from being a marginal thing to being a
mainstream thing and I think the main
impetus for that was the rise of hip-hop
culture you know obviously a lot of
athletes black and white shave their
heads that made it that made it normal
so again between the 1980s and present
that was a huge change we're just the
number of people you saw on TV or in the
newspapers the shaved head really
changed you know with during my lifetime
so athletes both black and white as part
of that but yeah hip hop culture a huge
part of that we're you know like I told
you this like there was a time I can
remember what hip hop culture was really
marginalized and really stigmatized and
it went to being music you heard in the
background of the mall and then again
it's mostly black artists but a few
white artists also there's the being
completely normal to have adult men with
shaved heads and that that really
changed the perception of it yeah so
head shaving went from being something
kind of stigmatized but me yeah sure
when I was still in high school like I
would have been the only white guy with
a shaved head in the whole high school
yeah you know like I own so I'm trying
to remember if there was even in in that
high school because I come sorry I went
to two high schools I remember one guy
with a shaved head and that in the
earlier high school which was huge that
a huge number of students but in the net
second high school I might've been the
only guy with a with a shaved head you
know so it wasn't it wasn't calm and it
did make you stand out
yeah but I mean today I don't think
anyone would say like if I go to a job
interview like wearing this suit like oh
don't go with the shapes head like today
it just doesn't have any negative energy
it's just a completely normal aspect of
modern bourgeois life yeah yeah that is
interesting what you were just saying
that somebody tie - yeah it was a big
deal yeah right um it just made me think
of that V for Vendetta scene obviously
that's a woman who is shaving her which
is totally different you know like a
woman shave your head like you know
Arnie Spears 2008 like crazy right
problems or something it's totally
different between the genders but like
it is interesting that that for men it's
it's really not seen as something like
oh wow he's gone off the deep end
something normal right well I don't know
I I think it will be for women in the
future too I mean you know he seems to
be inevitable no but hey look this is
the other issue you mentioned this I
proposed some friend of yours is that
you know once you bury your skull we're
not all equal I mean not everyone has a
good shape of skull for this for this
and most people most people don't know
it until they shave their head yeah
she's always right like she was
immediately after she did it she bought
a wig or she bought like multiple right
she just felt like she didn't make it
look too something like the shape right
yes so not not I mean you know so that's
a really funny you know there's there's
good skull privilege good phrenology
good privilege yeah and you know
you could see that a lot you know there
are minor differences in the shape of
the skull for East Asians versus you
know Europeans and if you hang around at
Buddhist monasteries you can see I've
been at Buddhist monasteries with our
white guys there were Koreans and
Chinese guys and there are like people
from Sri Lanka you know and you got
pillows all the food that's you do
actually really see the the range of you
know the phrenological variables
the skull shape of your of your fellow
man oh you're you're you're you were
into it I know you wanted to make the
video it's cool from my perspective
that's true
people people asked supporters on
patreon asked click on the link below
this video the joint patreon it is true
that some men are right because you know
right right that starts to go away you
just just you just mentioned that Jordan
Peterson who's got an air trans right
Elon Musk right so that's stepping away
from the Buddhist monk thing the real
question here is do do chicks dig it and
I think that's you know what what you're
getting at and you know and then the
male vanity element so they're two
really interesting examples Jordan
Peterson who's only 55 he looks 70 I
mean he's aged badly I'm sorry let's
take out Beth's um what I'm gonna look
like at 55 compared to George because he
looks like on that ol meat diet a
hundred percent me diet um he paid for
follicle transplants right and he's lied
about it or he's avoided admitting it
and so on you know which is also
interesting
you ain't my all meat diet I don't write
Elon Musk I don't know if he's lied
about it but you know but that's that's
another public guys who's done this um
you know but I think anyone is but if
you're not thinking about hair transport
and I think the question is will women
you know prefer is in terms of male
vanity or being attractive to and how
you're perceived by a woman is it
preferable to have a lousy haircut as
opposed to being being bald that's the
choice most men have whether you're
bowling on whatever your situation is
right yeah if you're not a guy is gonna
put a lot of time and effort into your
hair you know yep any any most most
dudes how lousy hair go for most dudes
wear a baseball cap you know you know
what it is you know they do not want to
put in the time and effort to have fancy
hair and it is I mean it seems
effeminate I don't I don't wear jewelry
either and would I be more attracted to
women if I wore jewellery at
see here so real question me oh did the
type of women I'm after are not drawn to
a man who has those kinds of
affectations and and and what-have-you
right so I mean different strokes for
different folks there's a lid for every
pot you know blah blah blah I don't know
see I don't I can't contrast the the
experience I don't know what it's like
to be a dude with long flowing hair he
puts a lot of time into and how women
react to that but their me more there
are a lot of dudes you know doing that
there are a lot of youth putting in the
time and effort to have fancy ass hair
you know but you give me to do with
short hair that still is fancy that's
still a lot of time and effort yes you
know they connect you can be have a lot
of product in here in your hair and then
yeah yeah yeah yeah but um you know I
mean my my experience women are women
are most attracted to me when I'm
exhausted
pissed off and covered with stubble
that's always been my experience it's
exactly what I don't want to deal with
women and when I think I'm looking most
ugly but that ruggedness of having you
know the stubble all over being
exhausted and pissed off there were so
many women you know it's it's really
it's a really you know an observable
difference from when I'm like
clean-shaven well rested and with it or
whatever yeah yeah yeah yeah so what's
what's the moral of that stuff I don't
know but obviously it's a at least a
million dollar interest industry or TV
late at night and seen infomercials for
write products that claim to make you're
right well okay but look there's apparel
here with women's sexuality and beauty
for a man if you're putting the time and
effort into your appearance is that in
order to get women or is that just in
order to compete with other men you know
I think that's also something like is it
that you want to be the dude at the
office with the most impressive hair
look is it something like that like you
feel there's a hierarchy at the office
or hierarchy at the gym or what it like
is it is it male competition with other
men or is it actually about you know
attention from females um yeah I think a
lot of people never ask themselves that
question also because because with women
there's
so many women who put the time and
effort in it and it's just it's just to
show that [ __ ] Cathy at the office just
to show Cathy I I can look better than
her like it really is like just women
competing with other women yeah and not
doesn't have to do with what men want
are their relationships with men or what
have you
yeah so that's it man 21st century head
shaving has definitely become become
mainstream and I don't know like to see
men that are mostly balding but they
still try to like hang on to like the
sides and right there's you know statues
from ancient Greece and right yeah
showing men that right right just just
like just a crown like just the last
vestiges around their head right yeah
but I don't know maybe for them that
connotes a kind of you know
respectability or what have you you know
yeah
maybe there's something they feel is you
know okay you know the courts to their
status about that I don't know
well yeah like I say you know it's you
know how are you gonna live a kind of
highly effective life and for me I know
to some extent you and I everyone wastes
time every day but this is a choice you
can make are you gonna waste that time
or you're gonna commit it to something
more meaningful yeah okay guys give me
up